BD THOUGHTS

A. Birddog Monitoring Agent

    Duties:

    1. Periodically (3-4x daily), wake up, check logs, look for anomalies.
    2. If anomaly found, investigate, determine cause, propose solution.
    3. Contact (email) developer (me) with issue summary and proposed solution. 
    4. Await response, possibilities:
        1. Approve: implement fix, test, deploy, push changes if any, monitor outcome.
        2. Discuss: enter a dialog session to address the issue.
        3. Dismiss: issue is dismissed with feedback.
    5. Periodically (daily?) send BD activity summary.
        - User activity
        - Page table update summary
        - Document table update summary
        - FTP Site update summary
        - Resource usage metrics (S3, DDB, Nocodb)
        - AWS cost summary
        - Anomaly report(s), if any

    Meta questions:

    1. How best to communicate?
    2. Cost management
    3. Security

    Extra credit:

    1. Propose new features, UX improvements, code review, security check, ... 
    2. BD alarms to wake up the agent?

B. Wiki change reporting filter:

    Goal: Reduce overall BD alerts by filtering insignificant changes.

    Categories of insignificant change:

    1. Whitespace only
    2. Metadata only
    3. Category links only
    4. No change to cached page content
    5. Links unchanged
    6. ...?

    Implies that wikitext is retrieved for every watched page change.
    Avoid over-reacting to high frequency updates.
    Slow cycle across watchlists in background. 
    Check each unchecked unresolved change that is older than e.g. 15 minutes.
    Evaluate individually, relative to reference version (watchlist-specific).
    Set flag on unresolved item if change is insignificant.
    Insignificance check should be relatively simple set of rules - not LLM-based.
    If new change comes in on an "insignificant" change, clear the flag.
    UI toggle to hide all insignificant changes in watchlist view.
    On deep resolve, subsidiary changes are resolved, even if insignificant.
    If toggle is allowing insignificant changes to be shown,
        A change flagged as "insignificant" has a checkbox/icon 
        Ticking it clears the "insignificant" flag
        Extra credit: 
            cleared "insignificant" flags are fed back to improve the classifier 

    Extra credit: What is a more effective UX for alert reporting and processing?

C. Document Auto-Triage

    Categories of "auto-triage":

        1. Document source location
        2. Document type (vital, census, ...)
        3. Jewish priority
        4. Cost/benefit estimate (i.e. dense/low yield vs. sparse/high yield)

    Staged Structure:

        1. Stage 1: Low-cost initial triage (classify or pass to next stage) using 
            - pattern matching
            - keywords
            - simple metadata analysis
            - context (opus, fond, archive)
        2. Stage 2: LLM-backstop

    LLM interface funneled through an "AIManager":
        - singleton controls and throttles overall usage
        - manages: 
            - multiple contexts with cached prompts
            - diverse models/services
            - async request/response interface

D. Metadata extraction

    Goal is to extract Jewish genealogical records from archive documents.
    Aim is high recall and precision.
    Should also flag documents requiring deeper (human) review.
    Architecture needs to allow for human feedback and improvement:
        - e.g. subset of docs submitted to human review
        - result of human review is fed back to extractor
    Controllable cost (prioritize on high cost-benefit, throttle resource costs).
    How many records to be stored - is nocodb too heavyweight? Should scale to 10M+.
        - how about DDB cache backed by S3 long-term store? or just S3?
    Metadata schema (need to get from Caitlin):
        Name, date, location, record_type, related records, ...
    Spreadsheet export for Joyce
    Linkage to document db (document id)

E. How to identify and link documents that are "nearly" similar?

    Not byte-equal, but content equivalent...
    Same number of pages?
    Each page is visually equivalent (rate corresponding pages in relative quality?)
        - what if a page is imaged differently, so perhaps having a different crop or background?
    Handle case that documents have overlapping pages, but some independent pages
    Deal with different document versions under the smae url (hence same Documents table record)

F. Roles and Workflow:

    ...